and right on Q we can go live to the G20
foreign ministers meeting in Rio US
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin is
speaking now threat to humanity and
that's climate change and our countries
have been leaders on that of course the
the rainforest the Amazon is one of the
world's greatest natural resources when
it comes to actually effectively dealing
uh with climate change carbon emissions
um president Lula put it this way when
he was at the White House with President
Biden to take care of the Amazon
rainforest today is to take care of the
planet Earth and to take care of the
planet Earth is to take care of our own
Survival I don't think anyone could put
it any better so the United States uh is
working side by side with Brazil to
support its efforts to preserve the
rainforest uh to combat deforestation uh
we're putting resources into that we're
engaged with many other countries around
the world to encourage them uh to
participate and with usaid and other
organizations in the US government we're
working in very practical concrete ways
to help uh with uh support the
management and preservation of the
rainforest uh in 2025 Brazil will head
up the cop cop 30 in BM this is a very
important opportunity to advance
progress on the many different ways in
which all of us are dealing with climate
change and we applaud Brazil's
leadership another area where Brazil is
leading and the United States has
partnered with Brazil is on dealing with
the challenge of food insecurity and
Global hunger here uh I'm proud of the
fact that the United States has invested
billions of dollars over the last few
years both to deal with emergency
situations that we faced the world has
faced as a result of climate change
covid and conflict including Russia's
aggression against Ukraine since 2021
the United States has invested 17.5
billion dollars in trying to uh support
food security for people around the
world um but it's not only the emergency
assistance that counts and I discussed
this with with President Lula it's the
work we are doing doing to invest in
productive capacity around the world for
countries from Africa to Latin America
uh to well beyond uh that is the answer
to the uh the challenge of food
insecurity we have many initiatives
underway that are doing just that um
adapting our agricultural systems our
food production systems with Brazil we
have a partnership um to bring
artificial intelligence and other
Technologies to improve the soil in
countries and one of the things that we
found and is at the heart of one of our
own major new initiatives vax our vision
for adapted uh crops and soil is when
you have um resilient and nutritious
seeds resilient to climate change and
Other Extreme uh weather patterns when
you have strong soil anything is
possible and this initiative with Brazil
is working to do uh just that um and
that means that what we then put into
the ground on top of the the seeds and
soil like fertilizer will be much more
effective so we're working to develop
crops that use nutrients more more
efficiently more effectively lowering
costs lowering dependencies and at the
same time lowering uh emissions it's
joined with climate change so another
powerful example of where our two
countries are working together in common
purpose and then of course President
Biden president Lula are joined
profoundly by their commment to
protecting worker rights to defending
and strengthening labor around the world
I think both presidents see it the same
way uh workers labor at the heart of our
successes as countries uh we are both
building
economies uh from the bottom up and the
middle out um here again the partnership
for workers rights that the two
presidents signed stopping worker
exploitation focusing on forced labor on
child labor promoting rights around the
world here again our countries are
joined and we have a joint action plan
as well to eliminate racial and ethnic
discrimination and propon equality
Equitable access to education to health
care to Justice particularly for people
of Africa and and Indigenous
origin uh I mention all of this because
it was really at the heart of the
conversation that I had with President
ly yesterday and aspects are also at the
heart of the G20 agenda which Brazil is
leading and the other main purpose of
this visit was to take part in a meeting
with the foreign ministers led by
foreign minister Vera to prepare the
agenda for the leaders when they have
the meeting of the uh G20 leadership
toward the the end of this year here
again Brazil and the United States are
working very closely together as
partners and it's the United States
purpose in this to support and make a
success of Brazil's presidency of the
G20 um in all the areas of focus that
Brazil has set forward uh whether again
it comes to uh advancing the rights of
workers and laborers whether it comes to
dealing with climate change food
security uh whether it comes to
reforming the institution ions that um
shape how countries interact around the
world uh we are working hand inand with
Brazil on that now the scope the scale
of some of these Global
challenges is immense and I know that
there are times when it feels like those
challenges are outpacing our Collective
capacity to tackle them but I think what
the G20 can demonstrate it's
demonstrated in the past and I believe
it will demonstrate in the future is
that no we actually do have the capacity
when we're working together to
effectively meet the moment to meet the
challenges we're facing to actually
address the needs of the people that we
represent the United States for its part
is working to do that and we had some
discussion of these issues in the
context of the G20 on Ukraine there is a
strong palpable desire among virtually
all of the G20 for the Russian
aggression to end and for peace to
Prevail in a way that upholds the rights
of ukrainians to their freedom to their
future future to the territorial
Integrity of their country and was very
clear in the meetings that uh that we
had over the last two days the conflict
in in Gaza between Israel and Hamas
we're focused intensely on trying to get
an agreement that results in the release
of the remaining hostages and that
produces an extended humanitarian
ceasefire uh and again those were goals
that I think virtually everyone in the
G20
shares Haiti an area uh that is close to
home and close to the hearts of
Americans and Brazilians alike uh we see
a situation that continues to
deteriorate particularly when it comes
to the profound insecurity as a result
of uh gangs that um are running rampant
not only in PTO prance but increasingly
Beyond we see a a state that's on the
verge of becoming a failed State and the
result is that people are suffering
tremendously not only from the violence
including sexual violence uh but just
from the inability to get the basic
necessities of life
uh today we had a meeting that involved
uh a number of countries all of whom
will be contributing to the uh mission
to help provide renewed security for
Haiti that was endorsed by the United
Nations uh last fall and that we're now
making uh making real we have a
commitment from Kenya to lead this
effort uh in support of the Haitian
National Police and today we had a as I
said a meeting with uh well more than a
dozen countries each of whom is
contributing or plans to contribute
significantly to this Mission with
personnel with equipment with training
and with Financial Resources uh and I
think today we had uh at least uh
another $120 million committed uh to
that effort uh we're working together to
deal with irregular migration a
challenge that um countries around the
world are facing in this moment this is
simply put uh a challenge of historic
proportions we see more people on the
Move now around the planet not only in
our own hemisphere but around the planet
more people than ever before since we've
been